Apple scab is a serious disease of apples and ornamental crabapples, apple scab (Venturia inaequalis) attacks both leaves and fruit.It produces lesions that can be observed on leaves, as well as blossoms, sepals, pedicels, petioles, and even the fruit itself. The fungal disease first appears as pale yellow or olive-green spots on the upper surface of leaves. Dark, velvety spots may appear on the lower surface of young leaves as they are exposed to the infection. These lesions have poorly formed borders and, for this reason, can sometimes be mistaken for sooty mold or even leaf fuzz. Severely infected leaves and tissues become twisted and puckered, turn yellow, and may drop early in the summer. Unfortunately, two to three years of consecutive defoliation in this manner can weaken the tree significantly, making it vulnerable to other diseases, insects, and stresses such as freeze damage.


The fungus called Venturia inaequalis is what causes apple scab. It can infect apples and crab apples (Malus spp.), mountain ash (Sorbus spp.), hawthorn (Crataegus spp.), mountain ash (Sorbus spp.), loquat (Eriobotrya japonica), and firethorn (Pyracantha spp.). A related fungus, Venturia pirina, infects pears (Pyrus spp.) and causes similar symptoms. The apple scab pathogen, on the other hand, will not infect pears, and the pear scab pathogen will not infect apples.

Symptoms on fruit are similar to those found on leaves. Scabby spots are sunken and tan and may have velvety spores in the center. The first signs of apple scab depend on the type of tree being infected, but generally initial symptoms include leaves turning dull, with olive-green round spots, usually on the leaves closest to the buds. As these spots mature, they become larger and turn brown and corky. Infected fruit becomes distorted and may crack allowing entry of secondary organisms. Severely affected fruit may drop, especially when young.

Apple scab overwinters primarily in fallen leaves and in the soil and is caused by the fungus Venturia inaequalis.

Disease development is favored by wet, cool weather that generally occurs in spring and early summer.

Fungal spores are carried by the wind, rain, or splashing water from the ground to flowers, leaves, or fruit.

During damp or rainy periods, newly opening apple leaves are extremely susceptible to infection. The longer the leaves remain wet, the more severe the infection will be.

The spores require several hours of moisture to start new infections. Apple scab spreads rapidly between 55-75 degrees Fahrenheit. Unfortunately, the infection cycle might occur multiple times throughout the growing season if the leaves remain wet for an extended period of time.

Leaves that have many spots eventually turn yellow as the disease progresses and fall off early. This weakens the fruit trees and consecutive years of defoliation can decrease growth, reduce blooms, and even increase susceptibility to other diseases as well as winter injury.

It’s important to make sure to plant your apple and crabapple trees properly in full sun and to leave sufficient space around the trees for them to mature. This will allow air to circulate and allow water to evaporate properly after watering.

This will make sure that trees aren’t too crowded next to each other, as this can increase susceptibility to the disease. The apple scab fungus needs moisture on leaves to start infecting, so this will help dry the leaves and reduce the severity of the disease if already infected, and reduce susceptibility if you’re trying to prevent the infection in the first place.
